This is a simple text document to get you used to navigating around in vim!

You can use the arrow keys to move, but...
More advanced users use the HJKL keys instead!
Use H and L to move left and right, and J and K to go down and up.

(1) Navigate the cursor into this box using either tactic: [ ]


You can also navigate word by word.
    Press w to jump to the next word.
    Press e to jump to the end of the next word.
    Press b to jump backwards to the start of a word.
Or around a line.
    Press 0 (zero) to jump to the beginning of a line.
    Press $ to jump to the end of a line.
Or around the file.
    Press gg (g twice in a row) to jump to the beginning of the file.
    Press G (capital g) to jump to the end of the file
    Press a number and then gg (e.g. 20gg) to jump to that line.

(2) Try navigating around the file using the commands above.


Now we can try adding text.
To add text, we need to put vim into insert mode. Press i to do that!

(3) Write the letter X between the brackets: []

And press ESC to leave insert mode and go back to normal mode.

There are actually multiple ways to enter insert mode:
    Press i to enter insert mode right where the cursor is now
      (insert on the left edge of the cursor)
    Press a to enter insert mode one character after where the cursor is
      (insert on the right edge of the cursor)
    Press I (capital i) to enter insert mode at the beginning of a line
    Press A (capital a) to enter insert mode at the end of a line
    Press o (the letter oh) to enter insert mode on a new line
      right after this one.
    Press O (capital oh) to enter insert mode on a new line
      right BEFORE this one

(4) Use capital-A to write your name at the end of this line: 

While you're working on text in the terminal (including in vim insert mode),
you can use ctrl+w to backspace a word at a time. Go ahead and exit insert mode
with ESC.

(5) Use captial-A to write your first name,
    then erase it in one go with ctrl+w: 

Now exit insert mode with ESC.

In normal mode, vim lets you undo and redo:
  Press u to undo, and ctrl+r to redo.

You can copy-paste, too; we'll do this in visual mode!
    Press v to enter visual mode. This lets you select text!
    You can press V (capital-v) to enter line-visual mode.
      This lets you select a line at a time.

Select the text, and press y ("yank") to copy it.
Then, in normal mode, press p ("paste") to paste it.

You can also delete selected text in visual mode, too.
Select the text, and press d ("delete") to delete it.
When you delete using d, it actually "cuts" the text to the clipboard–
  you can press p ("paste") in normal mode to re-paste it.

You can also copy and cut in normal mode: in normal mode,
    press yy to yank the current line, or
    press dd to delete the current line, or
    press x to delete just the character in front of the cursor.
    (you can also press y, d, and then some movement
      (see the movement above!) to yank or cut just that information)

(6) Use visual yank to copy and paste the following two lines at once:
  Hello
  World!

(7) Use visual delete to delete the following two lines at once:
  👀👀👀👀
  👀👀👀👀


Lastly, we can search in vim. In normal mode, press / and then type.
  (You can also press ? to search backwards).


Finally, let's open a new local file and edit it.
In normal mode, press : (colon) to enter command mode.
Here are a couple useful commands:
  q          – this will quit if the file is saved.
  q!         – this will quit even if there's unsaved progress
  w          – this will write (save) the file.
  wq         - this will save-then-quit
  o filename – this will open a new file with the given filename

(8)
  Use :o myfile.txt to open a new vim buffer for myfile.txt
  Then write your name or anything else you want,
  Then use :wq to save and quit. (Then try using cat to view it!)